This week's comments:

I have coded all the key parts for HW4 but I am still testing it.

I discovered some flaws in my overall design. So I had to backtrack and make major changes to somes pages such as how I checked login
and where I did that. Also, I was trying to use cookies where I should have used sessions. After redesigning the php pages, I
was able to resume testing my code this week. But other issues have slowed me down.

I am finding a lot of syntax errors. Also, I can't seem to get XAMPP to work correctly. It seems to be detecting old files.

In addition, I have spent a lot of time on connection issues. I have had only a limited number of opportunities to test my files 
on the actual server. I have run into problems trying to connect to the database. I also am having trouble trying to establish a 
connection to the server from home. None of the workarounds that I found on the web have worked. I have spent alot of time dealing 
with my ISP support back and forth. They are saying that the issue is on the server end. But I am suspicious since I can connect when
I'm at school. 

Last week's comments:

I estimate that I spent somewhere around 11-12 hours on this project. About 2-3 hrs were spent with setup issues related to Dreamhost, the database and 
the like. The rest was on programming/coding. I was able to write code for most of the funcitionality you asked for. But I did not have time to work on
sorting the messages by friends. I was struggling with how to develop that function. I was able to build code for most functions and items but ran out of
time to even test out any code. 

My biggest problem was simply the volume of items and features and the time it took to plan them out (design) as well as trying to code it. I did spend some time
thinking about the database structure and how best to set up the fields with each table. I could have used a different primary key such as friendname or username
for relationships instead of a relationshipid (integer). Jumping back and forth between SQL, PHP and HTML did slow me down somewhat making sure I didn't mix them
up or place the code in wrong location. And then I had separated a couple of functions out into separtate files including login.php and navbar.php which added 
to the number of files to manage. Handling mutiple queries and then setting up the logic to perform functions like remove and add friend took some time. I think
the handoff of data from the form to the database is always a bit challenging. The syntax trips me up fairly often when missing a needed bracket, semicolon or 
quotations.