Experience using MySQL and PHP

This is the first time I've used MySQL. I have previous experience with SQLite and PHP from Marius' class. Other than 
not requiring username and password. SQLite and MySQL are fairly similar. SQLite is a bit easier. Both have the logical
table structure with column fields and rows for records. Both graphical interface applications are fairly easy to use.

PHP is well-suited for working with databases. The special variable names like $GET, $POST and $REQUEST are all useful when
dealing with databases and are shortcuts for long variable names. PHP has many quick functions or shortcuts like include or the
tags <?php ?> which make it extremely easy to drop PHP in between other code on a web page. It's ability to create logic structures
like loops and conditionals also help you with the flexibility of how you can read, sort and write data into a database. But it 
also makes the syntax tricky and more challenging since more nesting requires additional brackets. PHP can be picky about syntax. 

PHP and MySQL are great on cost since they are both open-source technologies, the support community is fairly large, literature
is pretty extensive on them. MySQL also has some good database building tools. Both are straighforward to learn but PHP syntax 
and flexibility make it toughter to learn. As for quality, both are very mature for the web since they were first introduced 20 years 
ago in 1995. With that long life, there is a considerable base of experts from whom to draw assistance. MySQl seems better with speed. 
PHP is not blazing but it has improved. The adoption rate has been very high on MySQL and good for PHP. But other databases such as 
No SQL and other technologies like node.js are growing in popularity. 

The PHP and MySQL environment makes a good team. One is very flexible while the other has a consisitent structure and
orgnaization for a database. The challenge is designing the tables and fields in such a way to make it easier to find or extract data 
and manipulate the database. You typically find that you wished you had set up the fields a slightly different way after you dive into 
coding (like with how I set the primary key in relationships). The toughest challenge with PHP has been the syntax for me. I may not
 be an expert in either technology but I do see the appeal of using both together in web development. 
